# Rust Echo State Network

This project provides a simple implementation of an Echo State Network, ESN, in Rust. It
also provides a command line utility for testing said network with some data 
generated by some external script.

The long term goal is to use the ESN on a microcontroller board such as the Daisy
Seed for processing either sound or MIDI data.

## Some special decisions

- Instead of using a library such as `nalgebra`, we have a module, `mat.rs` for
  linear algebra. Not sure if a full fledged linear algebra suite can fit in the
  memory of a microcontroller, so that is the reason for the custom job.
- The `offline.rs` module will not be available nor necessary when using the ESN
  on an embedded system.
 
## Is it any good?

Yes and no... The system works and can run ESNs correctly. The current problem lies
in generating a good reservoir that provides a rich source of nonlinear functions of
the input and current state - so rich that useful output projections can be learned.

Up till now experiments with the system are less than satisfactory...

## To do

- Use `clap` for command line options for the command line utility
- Support "deep" ESN, ie, multilayer ESN architecture with 
- Support different types for signals: `f32`, `f64`, complex numbers and perhaps
  even multi-vectors with geometric algebra.
- Test for Echo State Property
- Cleanup
  
## References

- [Article on Scholarpedia](http://www.scholarpedia.org/article/Echo_state_network)
  includes references to lots of papers about the subject.
